---
title: "W22: Getting Ready for Co-op"
last_modified_at: 2021-04-23
categories: [Blog]
tags: [winter, school]
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
excerpt: "Getting Ready for Co-op"
header:
    teaser: assets/images/w22-thumbnail.jpg
    overlay_image: assets/images/w22-header.jpg
    overlay_filter: 0.25
---

# CIS*2750: Software Systems Development and Integration
This was my first course creating a large-scale application and my first experience with web programming. I really enjoyed learning and working with new topics in programming. This course has a reputation for being very difficult, but I found with good time management that I could succeed. I also really liked my prof for this course - Denis Nikitenko. He was excellent at explaining the topics and gave great in-person lectures.

# CIS*3110: Operating Systems
This course focused on the underlying components of operating systems such as cpu scheduling, resource allocation, multi-programming, and file systems. Before this course, I didn't know a lot about any of these topics. I found the course material very helpful in furthering my knowledge of the lower-level areas of the computer.

# CIS*3490: The Analysis and Design of Computer Algorithms
This course challenged me to think differently about programming than the other course I had taken. It was much more process driven and required creative problem solving. This was the first course where I found myself applying the mathematics I had learned in my first year. If anything, this course reignited my interest in mathematics.